Dear ETH Zurich,

I would like to apply for the Data Scientist & Geospatial Programmer position at the Crowther Lab advertised on the ETH website. This cover letter outlines my background and skills and sets our why I am particularly excited about this job.

I am a conservation data scientist with over 20 years experience working with governments, NGOs, research institutions and the private sector in applying geospatial technologies to help in the fight against biodiversity loss and climate change. Throughout this time I have gained a wide range of skills and experience which are directly relevant to this position including technical, managerial and communication skills. My technical skills encompass a broad range of information technologies from big-data and cloud computing (such as Google Earth Engine) to relational databases, machine learning, web mapping applications, GIS analyses and data mining. I am an advanced user of Google Earth Engine and of GIS tools (both open source and proprietary). I have held a number of managerial positions in my career including managing teams of scientists and software developers and managing multi million pound projects for governments and international donors. My communications skills have focused on publishing scientific papers and web-based decision support tools (winning an award from the ESRI Society for Conservation GIS in 2012). I have also presented at major international conferences (including Keynote addresses) and worked extensively with conservation and technology partners (including IUCN, FAO, ESRI, Microsoft, Google and many others).

The position at ETH appeals to me for many reasons, but my main motivation is that the position matches my expertise and background extremely well and I am confident I would be able to contribute significantly to the technical development of the lab. Another reason is that this position is focused on restoration of ecosystems which has an enormous potential to reverse the destructive practices of the past.

Best wishes,
Andrew Cottam

References:

Dr Jon Hutton
Director
Luc Hoffman Institute
Rue Mauverney 28
1196 Gland, Switzerland

Dr Alan Belward
Joint Research Centre of the European Commission
Via Enrico Fermi 2749
Ispra, Varese, Italy

Lawrence Way
Head of Surveillance and Monitoring
Joint Nature Conservation Committee
Monkstone House, City Rd, Peterborough PE1 1JY, United Kingdom
